Sara had grown up in one of the poorer neighborhoods of the city. She dreamed of attending college and pursuing a degree in physics, but she knew that it would be difficult. Sara was given a card with an ID code to input to a website once the winners were announced. It was how the judges would identify the students. Sara was excited. For months, she worked hard on her project, putting in all her free time. Sara, barely believing the news, called the organizers again: They put her through to the judge. Sara recognized the voice of her pointed questioner on the other end of the line. Sara tried to resign herself to what had happened, trying to convince herself that she hadn’t really lost anything. During the fair, everyone was presenting from behind screens. It was a bit of an odd setup, but somehow people made it work. People were not allowed to access the internet while in the fair hall, to make sure that no one could look up answers to questions.


The week leading up to the it, students’ families were getting ready for the science fair: Many had set up transport the day before—the university, where the fair was taking place, was a bit far. Unfortunately, Sara’s parents, who were often very busy at work, were not able to take her. With a renewed confidence, Sara answered the questions with ease. Nowadays, it was getting harder and harder to stand out amongst the pool of applicants, especially if you came from a school with fewer means. Without the ID code, they could not be sure of her, but, luckily, one of the judges had had the foresight to come up with questions they were certain only the project creator could answer properly.


Students with the top projects would be awarded a scholarship to their program. In an effort to be fair, the university had set two rules: One, all schools had to agree to the same budget for their students’ projects, and, two, the judging would be blind—judges would not be allowed to know who the students were or what school they were from. Sara assured them that she could make her way there and back on her own, and they gave her enough for the train rides. She had won the scholarship. Her parents, who asked her about the fair several times only to get mumbled half-replies, decided to check the results themselves. Sara got there early to register and set up her project.
 

The judge recognized her, and happily awarded Sara her prize. A bit frantic, she gathered up her things and ran out into the night, sprinting all the way to the station. She made it just in time.  Sara was afraid of losing the card, so she recorded the code on her phone. One conversation in particular had been especially stimulating: The person on the other side of the screen seemed to be really taking to her work, asking pointed questions that pushed Sara’s thinking further and further, in ways that surprised even her. The winning projects had all been announced, but one had remained unclaimed. The student had not been identified.

 
The judges were also anonymous, going around amongst the crowd of attendees—faculty, college students, and visitors who had heard about the event. The fair was nearing its end when Sara got an alert. The train she was supposed to take back, the last one that day, was out of service. If she wanted to get back home that evening, she would have to rush out at once to catch an earlier train. Sara had a wonderful time, and barely felt the hours go by. Sara could not bring herself to check the fair’s website for the winners. Finally taking a breath, she looked through her things. In a start, she realized that she had left one of her bags behind. It was the bag containing her phone and her wallet, with the ID card in it. A few days passed. She had gotten in touch with the fair organizers, to try and get her bag (and the code) back, explain her situation. Unfortunately, in all the uproar of the fair and the clean-up after, a lot of things had been misplaced. Sara’s parents, recognizing their daughter’s work, shouted for her. Sara’s junior year, though, her whole high school was abuzz: One of the premier universities of the city was organizing a science fair, and all the students in the area would be invited to participate.