Sara had grown up in one of the poorer neighborhoods of the city. She dreamed of attending college and pursuing a degree in physics, though she knew that it would be difficult. It was getting harder and harder to stand out amongst the pool of applicants, especially if you came from a school with fewer means. Her senior year, though, her whole high school was abuzz: Her hard work had been recognized, and she had won a scholarship to one of the premier universities in the area.

After starting college, Sara decided to help organize a science fair the university was holding for students in the area. She wanted to help other students get a chance like the one she had gotten. Students with the top projects would be awarded a scholarship to their program. She convinced the organizing committee that, to be fair, they should set two rules: One, all schools had to agree to the same budget for their students’ projects, and, two, the judging would be blind—judges would not be allowed to know who the students were or what school they were from. Sara was excited. For months, she worked hard to set up the fair, putting in all her free time.

The week leading up to the science fair, Sara visited her neighborhood and was glad to see that many students in the area were getting ready for it. She helped set up transport to the university, where the fair was taking place. The university was a bit far and she knew that some parents, who were often very busy with work, might not be able to get their children there. The neighborhood wanted to support their students, though, and many families offered their help—including Sara’s own.

During the fair, everyone was presenting from behind screens. It was a bit of an odd setup, but somehow people made it work. People were not allowed to access the internet while in the fair hall, to make sure that no one could look up answers to questions. The judges were also anonymous, going around amongst the crowd of attendees—faculty, college students, and visitors who had heard about the event. Sara had a wonderful time, and barely felt the hours go by. She enjoyed walking around the hall, seeing students’ work, listening to them present. Once in a while, she would stop to ask a few pointed questions. She was often pleased by the students’ enthusiasm and the quality of their thinking.

The fair was nearing its end when she got an alert. She had almost forgotten about an evening class she had to attend. A bit sad to be leaving early, Sara quickly gathered up her things and went out into the night, rushing to class. She made it just in time. Finally taking a breath, she looked through her things. In a start, she realized that she had left one of her bags behind. It was the bag containing her phone and her wallet.

A few days passed. Sara had not been able to find her missing bag. In all the uproar of the fair and the clean-up after, a lot of things had been misplaced. Sara was a little frustrated with herself, but could not really bring herself to be mad. All in all, the science fair had been a success.There was only one hiccup. The winning projects had all been announced, but one had remained unclaimed. The student had not been identified. Sara’s parents, who had come to really care about the science fair and the opportunity it could mean for students in the neighborhood, insisted that Sara find out who it was. They were convinced it was a student from her old school. Sara, remembering the project, realized there might be a way to identify the student. She asked teachers from participating schools to present their classes with a series of questions she was certain only the project creator would be able to answer properly. She was right, and her parents had been right. The student belonged to Sara’s old school. They had been hesitant to come forward, scared about what accepting the scholarship would mean—leaving their family, and the life they knew, behind. Sara, understanding their fear, shared her own experience with the student. She tried to show them that they could go on to college, and still remain active in the neighborhood they had grown up in. Moving forward did not mean abandoning their community. The student came forward to claim their scholarship.