Sophia is a psychic. Her job is to talk with dead scientists from beyond the grave. Naturally, she is always careful to get permission from their closest living relatives. On an evening like any other, as she is working to set up a new contact, Sophia is invited to join a training program for an army of intergalactic peace keepers. She quickly realizes she must learn traditional forms of dance, and she goes to a legendary witch with many years of experience. The witch teaches her how to catch the most elusive of prey – the notorious double-edged sword. Sophia befriends the wild beast, and convinces it to search for treasure, hidden in an amusement park deep in the Amazonian forest. They travel together, practicing their speech for the fateful day, giving each other advice on the most persuasive changes in tone. Unfortunately, during a particularly eloquent turn of phrase, they slip in the mud and are separated. Each one spirals down a different path. Sophia finds herself locked in the pantry in the restaurant at the end of the world. She is not too worried, as she has food fit for a swarm of locusts. But, eventually, Sophia grows tired of the company of insects. They never seem to be able to tell her apart from other humans. Luckily, Sophia is able to drink from a magic waterfall that gives her a heightened sense of smell. She finds a mysterious set of bear paw prints and tries to follow them down a drain, swimming as fast as she can. Having trouble catching up, Sophia calls on a small spacecraft that she shares with her mother. The spacecraft has the temperament of a werewolf grumpily waking up from a nap, but knows how to step up when needed. Flying along, Sophia gets ambushed by a giant rat and almost eaten. Luckily, Sophia bumps into her good friend, a lawyer named Lesley, who happens to have good ties with the underground community. With their help, she is able to talk herself out of the situation and embarks on a new project to bolster the area’s local economy. Inspired, Sophia builds a robot replica of herself, capable of sharing her thoughts, but, luckily, free of any desire to replace the original. 

